---
authors: OtterLady, Doishy
order: 5
title: Matchup Guides
---

With this chapter we want to give you a brief overview over the most relevant
matchups in the current meta. We try to keep everything short and easy to read.

To keep verything easy to read, we organized every matchup as follows:

1. **Opposing deck name**
1. **Gameplan**: a short 1 or 2 sentences summary of the matchup
1. **Cards to keep in mind**: cards that are important for the matchups, divided in
   maindeck and sideboard
1. **Gameplay**: a longer guide how to play the pre and post Doomsday part of
   the matchup

!If you want to skip to a certain matchup use CTRL+F!

## UR Delver

### Gameplan

Resolving an early Doomsday is very important, but it's also important to build fast piles.

### Cards to keep in mind

#### Maindeck

<row variant="hand">{{!Ragavan, Nimble Pilferer}} {{!Lightning Bolt}} {{!Daze}} {{!Wasteland}} {{!Force of Will}}</row>

#### Sideboard

<row variant="hand">{{!Pyroblast}} {{!Force of Negation}} {{!Surgical Extraction}}</row>

### Gameplay

#### Pre Doomsday

Playing a longer game against a deck with strong pressure and heavy protection
has always been really hard, but now with the snowballing nature of Ragavan it's
even harder to set up a safe kill. You just don not have the time to dig through
your deck to find the right pieces.

Ragavan is a very dominating factor in this matchup. It disrupts your own plans,
by stealing your cards, and supoorts their gameplan by dealing damage and
accumulating resources. Your main goal, after setting up Doomsday, should be
keeping the impact of the monkey as low as possible, either by feeding it "bad"
cards or by resolving a Doomsday before it even has the chance to snowball.

When mulliganing, keep in mind {{Daze}} can be invalidated very fast by
{{Ragavan, Nimble Pilferer}} and every cantrip has to hit something good or
you'll fall be behind very fast. Hands with turn 1 Doomsday are always great,
espcially of the play. After MH2 many Delver players cut some {{Force of
Negation}}, making our turn 1 Doomsdays a lot safer.

Against the current Izzet Delver lists {{Force of Will}} got a lot worse,
because it's very resource intensive and we rather prefere to keep the cards we
would pitch to it for wins without passing the turn post Doomsday. To fight this
problem many Doomsday lists play {{Pact of Negation}}, because It's less
resource intensive and supports wins without passing the turn.

#### Post Doomsday

The post Doomsday game against UR Delver is very tricky. You often have to take
risks to resolve Oracle without giving the Delver player too much time to look
for answeres or straight up kill you with damage.

Of course you would prefere to always build Brainstorm piles and never pass the
turn, but that's not always possible. So you will have to build piles that pass
the turn. Here comes the ugly part, you can't beat everything a Delver deck
possibly has. Even in stock lists. You'll have to learn how to assess the
situation nad plan accordingly. That's an important skill in every matchup, but
against Delver it's crucial.

When building fast pass the turn piles, {{Lion's Eye Diamond}} will be your best
friend. The 3 free mana are often very helpful to cast Oracle without having to
put multiple Lands in your pile.

A little trick to play through an opposing Ragavan post Doomsday is to put a
cycler on top of your pile. It's not a loss when the monkey steals it, but you
are also happy to draw it and you can use it to dig deeper or control better
what Rgavan steals next.

## Jeskai Ragavan

### Gameplan

### Cards to keep in mind

#### Maindeck

<row variant="hand">{{!Ragavan, Nimble Pilferer}} {{!Daze}} {{!Force of Will}} {{!Wasteland}} {{!Counterbalance}} {{!Urza's Saga}}</row>

#### Sideboard

<row variant="hand">{{!Hullbreacher}} {{!Pyroblast}} {{!Surgical Extraction}} {{!Force of Negation}} {{!Meddling Mage}} {{!Torpor Orb}} {{!Flusterstorm}}</row>

### Gameplay

#### Pre Doomsday

Jeskai Ragavan is a very undefined archetype at the moment. There many builds
out there, from tempo style list, over midrange variants, to more controling
builds.

The matches against this deck play pretty similar to the UR Delver matchup, but Jeskai Ragavan has often a weaker damage backup, because many lists play less or no {{Lightning Bolts}} combined less threats but more protection.

#### Post Doomsday

The post Doomsday part of the game is often defined by the variant you play
against or you think you play against. It's very important to try to identify
your opponents role and adapt to new information.

## Bant Miracles

### Gameplan

Beating countermagic is not your only problem, their hatebears and answers to
Oracle will be main reason you lose games.

### Cards to keep in mind

#### Maindeck

<row variant="hand">{{!Endurance}} {{!Force of Will}} {{!Force of Negation}} {{!Dress Down}} {{!Teferi, Time Raveler}}</row>

#### Sideboard

<row variant="hand">{{!Hullbreacher}} {{!Ethersworn Canonist}} {{!Surgical Extraction}} {{!Force of Negation}} {{!Meddling Mage}} {{!Torpor Orb}} {{!Back to Basics}} {{!Flusterstorm}}</row>

### Gameplay

#### Pre Doomsday

You can play a much slower game against Bant Miracles. They don't have any early
threats and have to respect Daze. In Game 1 one layer of protection is often
enough to resolve a Doomday but in post board games it's adviced to play more
carefuly.

Many sideboarded games are defined by hatebears from their side, because they
often don't have enough countermagic to just fight Doomsday on the stack. They
have to try to lock us out of the game or rely on the pressure of their
creatures.

#### Post Doomsday

After you resolved Doomsday everything is about beating {{Endurance}}, and
against some newer lists {{Dress Down}}. They are their main way to beat
{{Thassa's Oracle}}. But there are many ways to play around these answers. In
Game 1 you have to rely on countermagic and discard, but in Game 2 and 3 you'll
often use a sideboard package, like {{Emrakul, the Aeons Torn}} + {{Shelldock
Isle}}. These sideboard packages often come with their own weaknesses, like
{{Teferi, Time Raveler}} or {{Back to Basics}}, but are still better than just
slamming 1 Oracle into a prepared opponent.

## Death and Taxes

### Gameplan

Slam early and build your pile around mana and card draw denial.

### Cards to keep in mind

#### Maindeck

<row variant="hand">{{!Kaldra Compleat}} {{!Spirit of the Labyrinth}} {{!Rishadan Port}} {{!Wasteland}} {{!Solitude}}</row>

#### Sideboard

<row variant="hand">{{!Deafening Silence}} {{!Mindbreak Trap}} {{!Surgical Extraction}}</row>

### Gameplay

#### Pre Doomsday

Against DnT resolving an early {{Doomsday}} is the safest way to win.
Mulliganing for a Turn 1 or Turn 2 Doomsday is a good starting point.

Longer games are their only reliable way to win. They deny our mana and hinder
our cantrips.

Game 1 they have no way to interact with your Doomsday on the stack, so you can
just slam as early as possible.

In post board games play around {{Mindbreak Trap}} when it's reasonable and keep
countermagic ready to fight {{Deafening Silence}}.

#### Post Doomsday

It's very important to keep in mind, that your mana is your biggest weakness and
that you can not rely on cyclers as tool to work through your pile.

There are many possible piles, but one of the easiest, most tested and pretty
{{Surgical Extraction}} proof pile is Fetchland, Fetchland, Thassa's Oracle,
Land, Land. It gives you the necessary mana, thins the pile and goes down to 0
cards to play around {{Solitude}}. All without cyclers or cantrips that get
stuck in your hand against a {{Spirit of the Labyrinth}}. It's also very
customizable. For instance if they already build up some pressure, add a
{{Massacre}} or a removal spell for {{Stoneforge Mystic}} to stay safe from
{{Kaldra Compleat}}.

When we are already talking about Kaldra Compleat, remember it has haste and
represents 5 damage for 2 Mana out of a Stoneforge Mystic.

## Maverick

### Gameplan

An early Doomsday gives you enough time to build safe piles.

### Cards to keep in mind

#### Maindeck

<row variant="hand">{{!Gaddock Teeg}} {{!Collector Ouphe}} {{!Endurance}} {{!Wasteland}} {{!Solitude}} {{!Dark Depths}}</row>

#### Sideboard

<row variant="hand">{{!Deafening Silence}} {{!Mindbreak Trap}} {{!Surgical Extraction}} {{!Choke}} {{!Thoughtseize}}</row>

### Gameplay

#### Pre Doomsday

The matchup against Maverick plays pretty similar to the DnT mactchup, but with
a small but important difference, {{Green Sun's Zenith}}. It gives them the
opportunity to find their silverbullets very easily. Since there are no real
stock Maverick lists at the moment expect every possible sideboard silverbullet
also in the maindeck.

Some lists play {{Dark Depths}} as an alternative win condition, but it's not
super common and the Dark Depths lines are all very telegraphed and easy to
spot.

#### Post Doomsday

Like against most green Decks {{Endurance}} is the only real threat to your easy
win.

That's why it's super important to build safe piles. As long as you resolved
Doomsday early, there is no reason to get fancy.

Fetches are strong against {{Wasteland}} and {{Collector Ouphe}}, so try to stay
away from petals as your mana sources for {{Thassa's Oracle}}.

## Lands

### Gameplan

Playing the long game is not a winning line.

### Cards to keep in mind

#### Maindeck

<row variant="hand">{{!Ghost Quarter}} {{!Dark Depths}} {{!Crop Rotation}} {{!Wasteland}} {{!Rishadan Port}} {{!Urza's Saga}}</row>

#### Sideboard

<row variant="hand">{{!Pyroblast}} {{!Sphere of Resistance}} {{!Choke}} {{!Endurance}} </row>

### Gameplay

#### Pre Doomsday

Lands has super strong mana denial, even more in Game 2 and 3, and will propably
always win the long game, but it can switch gears super fast thanks to {{Dark
Depths}}.

Based on that analysis a fast Doomsday is the way to go. But when you are
mulliganing keep in mind, how strong countermagic is against their post
sideboard hate pieces.

#### Post Doomsday

You have 3 main objectives post Doomsday. Have enough mana to cast {{Thassa's
Oracle}}. Beat {{Pyroblast}}. Beat {{Endurance}}. Building piles against Lands
isn't always easy, and sometimes you have to take some risks, but if you play to
your objectives in the priority they are listes above, you should be on a good
way to win.

You have to learn assess your opponents posibilities, that's not something
you'll learn reading this guide. You need to play matches over matches to refine
this skill. But i can give you list of usefull tools you propably have in your
deck.

Fetches are great to play around mana denial. You can "hide" you mana producing
lands behind them while thinning your deck.

Free Countermagic is your best tool against every form hate spells. From
{{Endurance}} over {{Choke}} to {{Sphere of Resistance}}.

Artifact mana is super good when you want to end the game fast and you know they
don't have ways to mess with it.

{{Cavern of Souls}} is an easy out to {{Pyroblast}}. Bounce Spells are the way
to go to beat a fast Marit Lage.

## Mono-Green Cloudpost

### Gameplan

Just slam, and beat Endurance post Doomsday.

### Cards to keep in mind

#### Maindeck

<row variant="hand">{{!Endurance}} {{!Dark Depths}}</row>

#### Sideboard

<row variant="hand">{{!Mindbreak Trap}}</row>

### Gameplay

#### Pre Doomsday

This will be a short one. Just cast Doomsday asap and play around possible
{{Mindbreak Traps}} in sideboarded games.

Some lists play the {{Dark Depths}} Combo. Like in any Dark Depths deck, their
plays to creat a 20/20 are super telegraphed.

#### Post Doomsday

They only have one card to interact with you, {{Endurance}}. You should always
have enough time for a pile that beats Endurance and even plays around
{{Mindbreak Trap}}.

## GW Depths

### Gameplan

Cast Doomsday as soons as possible, and play around Endurance.

### Cards to keep in mind

#### Maindeck

<row variant="hand">{{!Endurance}} {{!Crop Rotation}} {{!Dark Depths}} {{!Wasteland}} {{!Elvish Reclaimer}}</row>

#### Sideboard

<row variant="hand">{{!Deafening Silence}} {{!Choke}} {{!Collector Ouphe}}</row>

### Gameplay

#### Pre Doomsday

The matchup plays pretty similar to the Maverick matchup, but you have to focus
more on speed. GW Depts can set up a pretty early Dark Depths Combo with it's
fast mana and strong tutors, but they are not really a fast combo deck. Most
hands can't kill you realiably through countermagic in the early turns of the
game.

They have no counterplay against you in Game 1 besides pressure and a bit of
mana dial with Wasteland, so just slam early. In Game 2 and 3 they propably
bring in more mana denial like {{Collector Ouphe}} or {{Choke}} and some basic
combo hate with {{Deafening Silence}}. Still nothing a fast Doomsday can't beat.

#### Post Doomsday

For your pile, evaluate their pressure and build accordingly, but try to play
around {{Endurance}} if possible.

## The epic storm

### Gameplan

Keep countermagic up and do not pass the turn after Doomsday without protection.

### Cards to keep in mind

#### Maindeck

<row variant="hand">{{!Orim's Chant}} {{!Veil of Summer}} {{!Echo of Eons}}</row>

#### Sideboard

<row variant="hand">{{!Grapeshot}}</row>

### Gameplay

#### Pre Doomsday

The epic storm or short TES is the slower combo deck in matchup. It plays no
real interaction with your combo, only protection for their own. So your
Doomsday is always safe.

TES is pretty good in playing through countermagic and is able to reset hands
with Echo of Eons. Be carefull with your countermagic, try not to waste it. It's
good to have a feeling for how far they are away from a kill, to assess the
situation.

#### Post Doomsday

Pass the turn piles are very risky against Storm decks, because the lifeloss of
{{Doomsday}]} puts them in the very good position of not needing a high storm
count. With {{Burning Wish}} for {{Grapeshot}} they can easily amass enough
damage even without the 4 Mana for {{Tendrils of Agony}}. Only pass the turn if
you know they can not kill you. With {{Burning Wish}} for {{Grapeshot}}.

Since some lists started to play white, be carefull, they can cast {{Orim's
Chant}} to "mill you out". They just cast Orim's Chant when you draw your last
card, to prevent you from casting Thassa's Oracle and you'll lose in your next
draw step.

There are many ways to play around it. Countermagic is the obvious way, but you can also for example use your instant draws in response to your Oracle trigger. Orim's Chant doesn't prevent you from cycling.

## Elves

### Gameplan

Don't rely on countermagic, resolving an early Doomsday is a goog way to win.

### Cards to keep in mind

#### Maindeck

<row variant="hand">{{!Allosaurus Shepherd}} {{!Archon of Valor's Reach}} {{!Crop Rotation}} {{!Glimpse of Nature}} {{!Natural Order}}</row>

#### Sideboard

<row variant="hand">{{!Collector Ouphe}} {{!Thoughtseize}} {{!Deafening Silence}} {{!Choke}}</row>

### Gameplay

#### Pre Doomsday

Since {{Allosaurus Shepherd }} removed all interaction in this matchup, it's
just racing and countering a {{Thoughtseize}} or {{Deafening Silence}} if
necessary. But should you have to possibility to counter something without
losing too much speed, it's often adviced to slow them down by denying them
important combo cards like {{Elvish Visionary}} or {{Heritage Druid}}.

They can set up some super fast kills, either with Allosaurus Shepherd and enough mana or with {{Natural Order}}. So be carefull and try to finish the game as fast as possible.

#### Post Doomsday

Passing the turn piles can be a tad risky, because Elves can be really
explosive. Especially Turn 3 or later. Try to build fast piles.

In the past some Elves lists played {{Endurance}} or {{Crop Rotation}} for {{Ipnu Rivulet}}, but as long as they stay absent from sideboards, you only have to play around {{Collector Ouphe}}.

## Aluren

### Gameplan

You are a lot faster and you have more protection. Don't play scared, play like against a bad control deck.

### Cards to keep in mind

#### Maindeck

<row variant="hand">{{!Endurance}} {{!Force of Will}}</row>

#### Sideboard

<row variant="hand">{{!Force of Negation}} {{!Opposition Agent}</row>

### Gameplay

#### Pre Doomsday

Aluren is a pretty slow combo deck. To go off they need atleast 4 Mana,
{{Aluren}} and two of their combo creatures or {{Acererak the Archlich}}. This
should give you enough time to find Doomsday and set up a safe kill.

Resolving Doomsday should not be too hard, Aluren plays 4 Force of Will main and 2 Force of Negation in the sideboard. That's often not enough when they also try to set up their own kill. In game 1 one counterspell is often enought to force your Doomsday through. In game 2 you want enough interaction to beat atleast 2 Force effects from their side and try to keep an eye out for {{Opposition Agent}}.

#### Post Doomsday

Many lists play {{Endurance}}, like most green decks in the current meta, so
prepare to play around atleast one copy.

If they fought over your Doomsday, they often don't have enough resources to go off, but that is not always the case, especially since {{Acererak the Archlich}} joined the format. Should they still be able to go off and you have enough cyclers in hand to cycle to Thassa's Oracle, be careful with casting it of {{Aluren}}. You have to cast it when their combo creature is on the stack, else they can react and combo off while the Thassa's Oracle trigger is still no the stack.

## Reanimator

### Gameplan

Countermagic is essential. Counter their enablers.

### Cards to keep in mind

#### Maindeck

<row variant="hand">{{!Grief}} {{!Chancellor of the Annex}} {{!Cabal Therapy}} {{!Thoughtseize}} {{!Unmask}}</row>

#### Sideboard

<row variant="hand">{{!Iona, Shield of Emeria}}</row>

### Gameplay

#### Pre Doomsday

Do NOT keep hands without countermagic. You'll need it to protect your own combo
and fighting off theirs. With all their discard effects one free counter is
often not enough. The only reason to keep hands without protection are turn 1
kills.

When fighting their combo, try always to counter the {{Entomb}} effects, without a good target their reanimation spells are useless. And as a little sidenote, most lists play only 8 ways to creatures into the graveyard, but 12 reanimation spells.

#### Post Doomsday

The scariest creatures they can reanimate post Doomsday are {{Iona, Shield of Emeria}} and {{Ashen Rider}}, so try to be carefull with your lands and don't be stingy with your lotus petals. Iona will just end the game, and you can't do anything about that 99% of the time.

## Sneak and Show

### Gameplan

You are a bit faster, use this to your advantage.

### Cards to keep in mind

#### Maindeck

<row variant="hand">{{!Daze}} {{!Force of Will}} {{!Sneak Attack}}</row>

#### Sideboard

<row variant="hand">{{!Ragavan, Nimble Pilferer}} {{!Flusterstorm}} {{!Red Elemental Blast}} {{!Blood Moon}}</row>

### Gameplay

#### Pre Doomsday

Sneak and Show is one of our hardest combo matchups, but we should still be
slightly favoured.

Both ours and their deck share many similarities, but there are 2 very small but
important differences. We play {{Dark Ritual}} and need only one card to combo
off. This fact means we need less resources to combo and have to dig less for
our combo cards.

In games were you can't combo safe in turn 1 or 2 the game can evolve into a
staredown while both players dig for interaction. Discard can be very helpfull
in situations like this. But be careful, if you play a list with less cantrips,
they will sculpt their hand better than you most of the time.

In post board games they have two tricks up their sleeve, {{Blood Moon}} effects and Ragavan. Try to keep that in mind, but it's nothing match up defining.

#### Post Doomsday

After you resolved Doomsday only {{Sneak Attack}} can kill you. {{Show and Tell}} is very risky for them to cast, because it's just an Oracle cost reducer now, and if you should have no Thassa's Oracle in hand it atleast gives you another turn to win the game. A small trick they can use, they can put Sneak Attack into play with Show and Tell.

## UG Omni-Tell

### Gameplan

They are just a bad control deck with a combo finish. Omni-Tell can not beat you post Doomsday.

### Cards to keep in mind

#### Maindeck

<row variant="hand">{{!Force of Will}} {{!Veil of Summer}} {{!Force of Will}} {{!Cunning Wish}}</row>

#### Sideboard

<row variant="hand">{{!Surgical Extraction}} {{!Endurance}}{{!Trickbind}}</row>

### Gameplay

#### Pre Doomsday

Omni-Tell is a lot slower than it's sister Sneak and Show, since it plays only {{Show and Tell}} and no Sneak Attack. It also plays only 4 counterspells most of the time. That's overall very positive for us. Not much protection is needed and we have time to set up, but a lost counter war over Doomsday, can have harsh consequences if they fetch {{Surgical Extraction}} from their Sideboard with {{Cunning Wish}}.

#### Post Doomsday

You can build pretty safe piles that either use their Show and Tell to put
Thassa's Oracle into play or just cast it of Cavern of Souls.

Some Omni-Tell lists play {{Trickbind}} in their Sideboard. Try to use discard spells to get rid of it if necessary.

## Hogaak

### Gameplan

Race them, but keep their opportunity to mill you out in mind.

### Cards to keep in mind

#### Maindeck

<row variant="hand">{{!Hedron Crab}} {{!Vengevine}} {{!Cabal Therapy}} {{!Altar of Dementia}} {{!Bloodghast}}</row>

#### Sideboard

### Gameplay

#### Pre Doomsday

The Hogaak matchup can be pretty tricky, because they have two ways to kill you,
either with damage or with mill. They don't even have to completely mill your 60
cards, the pure on board threat of milling us is often enough to make a kill
with Doomsday impossible.

There are two iterations of Hogaak, a jund version and BUG one. The BUG versions
is scarier by far, thanks to {{Hedron Crab}}.

Speed is the only way to beat Hogaak, they are just to explosive to give them
time and you don't want to play against Hedron Crab and a uncracked Fetchlands.
But you have to be very carefull when you want to cast Doomsday but with no
option to win on the same turn. {{Bloodghasts}} will always have haste after you
resolved Doomsday, so try to evaluate the damage they can put out after you
resolved Doomsday and passed the turn.

They don't play any sideboard hate for Doomsday, but countermagic is still very important to keep them in check and protect your combo.

#### Post Doomsday

Because Hogaak plays no cards to interact with you on the stack, outside of Hedron Crab + Fetchland, you can build Brainstorm piles when ever you have the resources to do so. Should you have to pass the turn, make sure you have answers at your disposal.

## Madness

### Gameplan

Just race, don't rely on a turn 3 Doomsday.

### Cards to keep in mind

#### Maindeck

<row variant="hand">{{!Anger}} {{!Vengevine}}</row>

#### Sideboard

<row variant="hand">{{!Mindbreak Trap}}</row>

### Gameplay

#### Pre Doomsday

Similar to Hogaak it's a race or die matchup, but Madness has zero interaction.
They just slam and hope it's enough, and we do the same.

{{Lion's Eye Diamond}} is a very scary card in their deck, that leads to super
explosive turns. It should be countered 90% of the time. Always try to evaluate
their first enabler. How much damage does it really represent? Or is it just a
bait to sneak a Lion's Exe Diamond through your countermagic.

{{Daze}} should be used with care. Only use it if the set back of bouncing your
own land isn't too big and doesn't cost you the opportunity of a same turn kill
with {{Brainstorm}}.

Should they have {{Mindbreak Trap}} in hand post sideboard, it's often pretty obvious, because it's very hard for them to keep interaction up while playing out their threats.

#### Post Doomsday

Their only ways to put hasty threats onto the board are {{Vengevine}} or {{Anger}} + a Mountain. This makes it very easy to predict their damage and if it's safe to pass the turn.
